# Html-translator

Text translation app for tag content in HTML files.
Firstly
To download resources, I used the wget program because I had little experience with it
I used the following commands:
    wget \
    --recursive         This option tells wget to download the site recursively, following links to all pages
                        and resources within the site.
    --level 1 \         This option limits the recursion depth to 1.
    --page-requisites \ This option tells wget to download all the resources needed to display a web page,
                         including images, CSS, and JavaScript files.
    --adjust-extension \ This option tells wget to append the correct file extension to download files
                        that may have had their extensions changed during the download process.
    --span-hosts \      This option tells wget to download pages from other hosts as well.
    --convert-links \   This option tells wget to convert all the links in the downloaded HTML files so
                        that they point to the downloaded files on your local machine, rather than to the
                        original URLs on the web.

    --domains test-task-domain.com \ This option limits wget to downloading only resources from the
                                    specified domain.
    --no-parent \
    --header 'User-Agent: My user agent'  specifies the user agent to use when downloading the website.
    https://www.test-task-domain.com/
    But some images have been preserved incorrectly


Secondly
I used the httrack program that was offered in the video.
I used the following commands:
httrack
    http://www.example.com   URL of the website.
     -O /path/to/save        Specifies the directory where the downloaded files will be saved.
     -r                      to download the website recursively, meaning it will follow links and download pages linked to from the original website.
     --user-agent "My user agent" Specifies the user agent to use when downloading the website.
     --near=2                To download all images from other sites.
But some images have been preserved incorrectly


After downloading the resources, I started writing python code for translation.
After trying to find the correct API for translation I chose a deep translator.
As an HTML parser, I decided bs4 library
To eliminate errors that appeared due to a large number of incoming requests, I added a short pause after the translation
To eliminate errors that text must be a valid text with a maximum of 5000 characters, otherwise, it cannot be translated. I divided the text into an allowable number of characters

To upload to a live server I used avs C3, I made the folder public and indicated that the site is static, and registered the path to index.html the file

To start the application you need:
    Download the project from Hithab using the address
        https://github.com/denszn/html-translator.git

    Install the virtual environment and install a requirements.txt file in it.

    Move the folder with files to the root folder. Or set your way to the directory with files.

    Run the program.

P.S.
The application finds the entire text in the files and correctly translates them.
I think this code can be improved using the Google Claud APi translator application
But since this paid service, I did not use it and developed my option.
In general, I liked working on this test task, it was an interesting experience.